#### Exercises

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" - String
42 - Integer
09/02/1945 - Date
98.7 - Float
$15.99 - Float

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A) Database would be used when we need to store a large amount of data. It allows users to search for specific data, handle multiple applications accessing the data, and modify data. Text file would be used for storing human-readable data and it will be accessed and managed by one user.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

A) SQL is a query based language that is used to manipulate data stored in a database while other languages process data. SQL specify what data operations should be performed rather than how to perform them. 

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

A) Databases display data using a table structure with columns and rows. We can get results from data, update data, or make new structures to store data using SQL.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A) 
Table: Structure of the database which store and organize data. It consists of rows and columns.
Row: Makes up a complete conceptual unit.
Column: Defines what the data represents.
Value: representation of data which is hold in each cell.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

A) String, Integer, and Date

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

     A) Find date and amount from payments table.

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

     A) Find amount from payments table where the amount is greater than 500.

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

     A) Select all the columns from payments table where payee is 'Mega Foods'.

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

*The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

     SELECT email, sign-up
     FROM users
     WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data'

*The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

     SELECT userid
     FROM users
     WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'

*All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

     SELECT *
     FROM users
     WHERE userid = 4


